Hi everyone, who is this teacher?
raquel in the footsteps of the disciplines of
integrated clinical dentistry of
Catholic University of Brasilia
today we will treat a little bit about
the polymerization reaction which is a
process involved in most of the
procedures performed with materials
resin for direct use in dentistry
as discussed in the previous video
Composite resins have a matrix
basically formed by
monomers which are the
structural properties of the substance during
Polymerization occurs the chemical bond
of these monomers in polymers hence the name
This process can be
three physical chemical types or al
in the case of chemical pollination is
necessary that the accelerator and the
initiator are made available
packaging in such a way that
reaction only begins at the moment when the
folders are mixed
already in the case of physical pollination is
necessary physical stimulation in general in
wavelength light shape
which will trigger a
the reaction of monomer
long polymer chains in the case of
Pollination al
the reaction is activated in both ways so
as the polymerization materials
chemistry when mixing folders starts
a chemical reaction and the presence of a photo
initiators will allow the activation
physical reaction to accelerate it
this scheme of the teacher's book
baratieri 2010 well summarizes the mechanism
Basic pollination of composites
a slight extinction in the process
depending on the type of polymerization
be it physical or chemical Dual
first phase
it begins with the breaking of molecules
initiator per activator action
generating free radicals and the presence
these free radicals will start the
propagation where a reaction occurs in
the double bond breaking chain of the
monomers at the time
the double action is broken the number then
activated and acts as a new
free radical, causing the reaction to
progress until two active molecules
if one does not close the polymer chain
which characterizes the termination of the reaction
of polymerization it is characterized
by the approximation of the molecules of
monomer represented here by the
resulting in a reduction in the volume of
material
this phenomenon is known as contraction
polymerization and has a direct relationship
with the amount of organic matrix of
Composites ie the higher the volume
of the matrix greater the contraction of
polymerization it turns
already in the compounds based on metal
acrylate which are the great majority is this
The polymerization contraction varies from 2 to
6 percent by volume while
carrot-based compound year is lower
than 1%
the contraction degrees is also influenced
by the compliance of the molecules of
monomer being the matrices
composed of smaller chains and more
simple suffer more with traction when
to bind to polymers than the more
molecules with high molecular weight in the
However, the production of
containing exclusively monomers of
high molecular weight is not feasible once
that after the addition of the load the materials
would be too rigid for clinical use and
to work around this problem use
high and low molecular weight monomer
in the same material
another aspect that directly influences
in the hiring of pollination is the volume
of the load incorporated into the organic matrix
ie the higher the volume of the load
smaller than the matrix and
consequently lower contraction
with the contraction of
polymerization and consequent reduction of
volume of the material are generated voltages
at the interface between the compounds and
substrate details when the forces of
contraction stress are higher than the
adhesive resistance can be created
then a space that can generate
undesirable clinical consequences such as
marginal infiltration
marginal and secondary and rupture of
adherence in situations where stress is
high but insufficient to break the
adhesive bonding forces can be
transmitted to the remnant causing
problems such as cost
postoperative sensitivity or even
even cracks in the peripheral enamel
especially in cases where there is little
support to teach you
among the factors that influence
are the volume of polymerization
of the material being polymerized
the mechanical properties of the physical
material
the polymerization technique used and the
technique of inserting the increments in
simple terms the higher the volume
of material being polymerized higher
stress polymerization with the
elasticity refers to the rigidity of the
the larger the
greater elasticity the stress of
as to the polymerization technique
insertion of increments is important
to discuss the factor being the factor of
configuration with victory and can be
understood as the ratio of the number
of areas acquired by the number of
existing free surfaces of a
cavity for example a cavity as
class or cross the factor c is
equal to 5 since there are five
walls avenues vestibular tongue months
the audi is a pool pa and only one
free wall that uc rusal this in case
of a single increment and the
direct polymerization in order to have
a better relationship between the number of
surfaces and free area
diverse techniques of
incremental insertion of these composites
techniques help both to reduce the
factor c while ensuring a better
organization of composite resin
by placing smaller portions of the resin and
making the light to your
adequately at each increment
Ideally, each increment should have up to
of
millimeters thick then doubt whether
Do you have any? Just send it to us.
in any of our channels can
be the youtube facebook twitter
Our email and instagram here are the
references of this video and
we find in a near